more of the world's population is now
concentrated in cities than ever before
this is an in depth look at how seven of
the most spectacular mega cities around
the world are managing that growth
thanks to dashlane for sponsoring this
full-length video to learn how to manage
your online accounts securely visit -
lang comm / TDC the most successful
metropolis in the history of the world
has 39 million residents 50% more people
than any other urban area it is the
safest big city on the planet and with
the two trillion-dollar GDP its economy
is larger than all but eight entire
countries this is Tokyo Earth's model
mega city our story begins 561 years ago
when a samurai warrior built a castle on
the shore of a fishing village called
Edo its rich soil was ideal for growing
rice and attracted farmers from far and
wide in 1600 the great commander
Tokugawa iesu won the battle of
sekigahara a pivotal moment in history
that secured at whose status as the most
important place in Japan
unfortunately the buildings of the
expanding City were made of wood and
paper a dangerous combination to
confront the warm winds of summer legend
has it that on one particularly dry
afternoon in 1657
a priest made the deadly mistake of
burning an unlucky kimono the fire
flared up ignited his temple and
engulfed 70% of the city 100,000 people
lost their lives despite the disaster by
the middle of the 19th century a ters
population was in the millions that's
when the military Shogunate system that
had ruled for almost seven hundred years
ended a new government led by a young
Emperor finally made ed who the official
capital of Japan renamed Tokyo and made
the castle his imperial palace to
celebrate his arrival everyone toasted
with rounds of sake on the house around
this time Japan opened up to foreign
trade and influence with Tokyo driving
the industrial revolution that was
modernizing the country
but rapid development at a cost a
strained natural environment forests
were raised pollutants choked the air
and Tokyo's once pristine waterways grew
increasingly toxic it was time for more
conscientious approach the principal of
satoyama was born promoting sustainable
coexistence with nature especially in
the rice paddy fields covering Japan's
sprawling foothills today a century of
conservation has resulted in parks
covering 20% of the land in the Tokyo
metropolitan area but while the danger
from pollution has been largely overcome
one natural phenomenon poses an
unavoidable threat earthquakes in 1923
an 8.0 magnitude quake rocked Tokyo
devastating the geologically unstable
eastern Ward's of the city as fire
storms engulfed whole neighborhoods some
took advantage of the chaos to target
political enemies and minority groups
like Koreans when smoke finally cleared
140,000 people had perished just 22
years later in 1944 Tokyo was hit again
this time from above by Allied air
forces who waged a relentless nine-month
campaign that lasted until Japan's
surrender to end World War two following
America's detonation of two atomic
weapons on Hiroshima and Nagasaki on the
worst night of the onslaught 279 Boeing
b-29 Superfortress heavy bombers dropped
more than 1,600 tons of explosives on
Eastern Tokyo it is regarded as the
single most destructive bombing raid in
human history leaving more than 100,000
dead and more than 1 million homeless it
took generations for Tokyo to completely
recover but today after more than seven
decades at peace
Tokyo is thriving it's dense
metropolitan area now stretches an
incredible 32 uninterrupted kilometers
all the way to Japan's second largest
city Yokohama
while roads and highways are how many
get around the arteries that set Tokyo
apart from other mega cities are its
extensive rail lines after World War two
Japan didn't have access to the oil
reserves and the automobile focused
transport system required so the
government wisely invested heavily in
rail projects to connect central Tokyo
with surrounding towns and cities in
October 1964 just in time for Tokyo to
host the Summer Olympics Japan debuted
the world's first modern high-speed rail
line to Osaka the Tokaido Shinkansen
with trains reaching speeds of 256
kilometers per hour
today Tokyo's urban rail network serves
a world-leading 40 million passengers a
day
compare that to America's car dominated
system where space for roads and parking
can take up to 60 percent of a city's
available land of course Tokyo has
innovative ways of storing the cars that
it does have and it's bikes congestion
has also been eased by an 11 billion
dollar mega project the Tokyo Bay aqua
line is one thirds bridge two thirds
tunnel it has turned what was a 90
minute drive through downtown and around
the shore of the bay into a 15 minutes
sprint through it instead the project
took 30 years to design and complete
because it has to withstand the
ever-present danger of earthquakes
that's also why buildings in Tokyo cost
an extra fifty percent to construct and
why they tend to be shorter than the
skyscrapers in other economic capitals
two factors that drive up real-estate
prices and add to urban sprawl from
above
Tokyo seems like in unnavigable maze but
on the ground life for many is lived
locally within their own neighborhoods
shops and businesses to obtain
day-to-day essentials can usually be
reached within a short walk including
many of the world's greatest sushi
restaurants Japan runs on seafood along
Tokyo's Harbor lies Tsukiji the largest
fish market on earth every day more than
50,000 people come to buy and sell 400
different types of seafood
among the buyers are the chefs of the
227 restaurants with at least one
Michelin star making Tokyo the city with
the most of these prestigious marks of
excellence in fact when President Obama
visited Tokyo he ate handcrafted sushi
prepared by the great Jiro himself he
also played football with a humanoid
robot just one example of how Japan is
leading the global transition to
automation as a technology superpower
Tokyo is home to the most non
state-owned fortune 500 companies of any
city in the world and along with New
York and London is considered one of
three command centers for the global
economy all of these factors make Tokyo
the most advanced major city and it's
getting ready to put on a show for the
entire world in the summer of 2020 it
will host the Olympic Games this is
motivating Tokyo's Metropolitan
Government if you use its massive annual
budget which is larger than the country
of Saudi Arabia to fast track its
progress among the achievements that are
already complete or that officials are
hoping to showcase to the world include
a program to have functioning robots
installed throughout the city to assist
people regardless of age nationality or
disability the 920,000 expected daily
visitors during the Olympics could ask
nearby robots to help with language
translation directions or transportation
robots are just one example of how
hosting the games could benefit Tokyo's
citizens long after the closing ceremony
with an aging population projected to
peak in 2020 and then decline Tokyo is
experiencing a graying of its society on
a scale that no city has experienced
before
and because there will be less workers
paying taxes and more elderly living on
government pensions requiring care the
government is heavily encouraging
volunteerism this shouldn't be too hard
for the citizens of Tokyo some of the
most considered people on earth they
routinely ranked first in helpfulness
ease of local public transportation and
cleanliness of streets amid the turmoil
following the March 2011 earthquake
visitors priced Tokyoites for their
orderliness this is part of gamin the
Japanese spirit of self-control
a dedication to the greater good through
self-discipline
of course while planned and maintained
infrastructure is the main reason why
Tokyo works so well recent and soon to
be completed projects include a bald 350
million dollar plan to jumpstart a
hydrogen powered transportation system
by increasing the number of hydrogen
stations from 8 to 35 while putting 6000
fuel cell cars and 100 fuel cell buses
on the road by 2020 a network of fuel
cell vehicles which can double as mobile
electricity generators could be a
game-changer in an emergency just two of
these buses can power an entire hospital
for a day other transportation upgrades
include the 3-ring expressway that's cut
many trips throughout the region in half
repairing and reinforcing bridges
tunnels and roads using advanced laser
scanning technology and carbon fiber
with the aim of detecting problematic
infrastructure before it fails while
extending its life of 200 years
installing more solar heat blocking
pavement that's up to 8 degrees celsius
cooler than asphalt helps off Tokyo's
heat island problem a challenge faced by
many other cities around the world
transferring as many power lines
underground as possible widening
sidewalks doubling the amount of
dedicated bike lanes and opening outdoor
cafes in an initiative dubbed the Tokyo
shomsul is a project the city is
aggressively reducing co2 emissions
through the first urban cap-and-trade
system covering factories and commercial
facilities like office buildings to
reduce the danger of heavy flooding from
rainfall massive underground chambers
and tunnels have been installed to
regulate and divert waters for rivers
channels and sewers that have
traditionally overflowed these measures
go hand in hand with an integrated
series of flood wall gates rain gauges
and river level monitoring cameras that
are watched 24/7 by engineers at 2
command centers that can each operate
the entire system remotely in case
either one of them fails with so much
historical damage from fire officials
are pushing to replace old wooden houses
with fireproof ones creating entire
zones where residents wouldn't have to
evacuate during a nearby blaze and
ensuring that major routes are lined
with fire and earthquake proof buildings
so emergency vehicles can move freely
amplifying the appeal of hosting the
Olympics is the opportunity to share
these advancements with their guests who
are encouraged to implement these best
practices in their own cities
Tokyo already does this by hosting and
teaching forum first responders the most
advanced search and rescue techniques
sharing infrastructure best practices
with officials visiting from abroad and
helping engineers from Kuala Lumpur
update their waste management system
Tokyo is also a pioneer in land
reclamation with mountains having its
growth adding land to the bay is an
increasingly attractive option
particularly if that land is made of
trash the sea forest area for example is
a former landfill that is being
converted to parkland and will even host
Olympic events in the coming years
population growth and rising seas will
force the entire world to do more with
less
and while Tokyo isn't perfect by using
its resources wisely planning for the
future and sharing what it learns with
the rest of the world it should be a
model for cities of all sizes everywhere
the dramatic cliffs and endless beaches
of Rio de Janeiro makes it the city that
probably first comes to mind when you
think of Brazil South Paulo the largest
metropolis in the southern hemisphere is
the true economic engine of the world's
sixth most populous country in 1554
Catholic missionaries with the help of
indigenous workers built a small village
perched 750 metres above sea level and
70 kilometers from the Atlantic coast it
was the only inland settlement in the
country a jumping-off point four
expeditions of conquerors slave traders
and gold hunters in the 1800s Brazil
became the world's leading coffee
producer but the farmers in Rio over
cultivated their soil giving Sao Paolo
an opening to become the country's
agricultural hub as one of the few
inland towns it was closer than Rio to
the plantations spread throughout the
interior and it was directly linked by
rail to the Port of Santos making it the
ideal Junction for shipments of goods on
their way to the coast for
in 1888 Brazil's businesses adapted to
another significant change when emperor
dom pedro ii regarded by many as the
greatest brazilian to ever live
convinced his people to abolish slavery
with their captive labor force suddenly
free farmers and industrialists turned
to immigrants from abroad today as a
result sal paulo has the largest
population of italian descendents of any
city on the planet including rome the
largest japanese community outside of
japan and of course significant numbers
of portuguese and spanish
many of these newcomers were skilled
factory workers whose knowledge helped
sell Palelei emerge as a manufacturing
capital during the industrial revolution
and world war ii over a period of less
than 30 years the city's population
exploded from 250,000 to 1 million
steady growth continued through the
century passing rio in 1960 today the
population of the megalopolis known as
samba is over 20 million in many ways it
is a thriving global city with the
largest stock exchange in latin america
a vibrant culture with over 100 museums
and dynamic performing arts spaces and
beautiful parks as part of football
christ brazil it proudly hosted matches
during the 2014 World Cup and is making
significant investments in the next
generation with 850 thousand students
enrolled in higher education courses
unfortunately though Salle Paulo's rapid
development has also taken a heavy toll
with four core problems rising above the
rest the city's only major bodies of
water are the Chetta and Pinheiro rose
rivers as the population grew the
government plagued by inefficiency and
corruption struggled to meet demand for
basic infrastructure without enough
wastewater treatment plants sewage from
millions of people flowed directly into
the rivers toxic waste from industrial
facilities was dumped without limit when
new highways were built the city laid
them on the only continuous stretches of
land left the riverbanks and then hid
stretches
them behind walls but even if you can't
always see the rivers their stench
doesn't go away when the Chetta is at
its most choked it is a biological dead
zone as far away as bada Bonita 260
kilometers downstream it wasn't always
this way
the rivers used to be gathering points
for recreation distant memories that are
motivating current rehabilitation
efforts which include projects to treat
100% of all waste water before it enters
the jetty
putting an end to all illegal dumping
and teaching people how to care for
their rivers and streams
the second major challenge is that 10%
of Palestine owes live in high-density
makeshift neighborhoods called favelas
while the buildings are typically low
quality most favelas are vibrant
working-class communities some
settlements however are little more than
squatter shacks without access to
electricity sewage and running water to
give these people a better place to live
while improving the overall quality of
housing throughout Sampa the city has
spent billions of dollars on a variety
of programs one experiment allows
low-income residents to purchase new
government built apartments for
affordable monthly payments of less than
$100 it's a win-win ownership helps
people become more financially stable
while incentivizing them to maintain
these spaces this was my dream I think
it's almost as wonderful as having a new
baby it's all I expected it to be it's
not furnished yet the way I want it but
I dearly love this apartment the
downside is that the government has been
building many of these projects far from
the city center there any has a two-hour
commute to work and there are no local
parks for her son to safely play with
his friends lack of access to services
flags all of South Paulo because of how
it developed the best jobs are where the
transportation network is concentrated
in the city centre and since that's also
the most expensive place to live
lower income people are pushed farther
and farther out and have to spend more
money energy and time getting around the
municipal government understands it must
improve this situation and
unveiled an ambitious new master plan to
better integrate lower income areas with
parks transportation hubs and jobs like
much of the world Brazil has a growing
gap between its wealthiest citizens and
everyone else the top 1% of Sao Paulo
city residents owns 45% of the property
the master plan addresses this by
mandating that private property owners
who underutilized valuable City space
need to either meet scheduled deadlines
for putting that space to better use or
pay a progressively costly urban
property tax the plan has been praised
internationally but the real challenge
will be overcoming the powers that be to
make sure it is carried out this brings
us to stop ballast third major problem
citywide traffic jams that steal tens of
millions of productive minutes every day
in the last decade the population
increased 11% but the number of cars
grew 113 percent ten times as fast
congestion is so bad that wealthy palace
tonneaus are flocking to the air and the
city now has the world's largest
helicopter fleet the ability of the
wealthy and powerful to avoid their
city's problems by literally flying over
them has contributed to a sense of
complacency among the leaders of
Brazilian society like many other
nations it is now reckoning with the
damage caused by politicians who put
personal greed over the best interests
of the people an example of this is a
shiny new high-speed rail line
connecting Sao Paulo and Rio that the
federal government promised to build in
its winning bids for both the 2014 World
Cup and 2016 Olympics but two years
after the flame left Rio the rail
project hasn't even broken ground
Palestine was are fed up hundreds of
thousands protested to demand solutions
to the mobility crisis forcing local
officials to listen to people and
integrate their best ideas into the
master plan like how best to expand the
number of roads and metro lines increase
express bus routes build networks of
dedicated bike lanes and concentrate
housing near public transport hubs
to maximize employment opportunities Sal
Paulo's most distressing challenge
reached a critical point four years ago
when the region suffered the worst
drought in its recorded history as just
half the rain fell from the previous
driest year without water to wash dishes
high-end restaurants served guests on
plastic plates and cafes couldn't brew
coffee as panic set in fighting erupted
in the hardest hit neighborhoods and
emergency water delivery trucks were
robbed as the city's main reservoir
dropped below five percent less than
three weeks supply the military feared
the water control center could be
overtaken by an angry mob
one service engineer remembered those
terrifying days we knew that when people
don't have water they go crazy we
imagined what they would be like here
with 21 million people in the end a
storm arrived just in time to avoid
catastrophe
since then other sources throughout the
region have been tapped to give Sal
Paulo a bit more supply when the next
apocalyptic drought arrives but some
experts are warning that even more
extreme dry spells loom on the horizon
the vast South American jungle has
traditionally served as a biotic pump
circulating water down from the tropics
through rivers in the sky that converge
over southeastern Brazil delivering
reliable rains year in and year out but
decades of logging and agriculture have
gutted hundreds of millions of acres of
dense mature trees and every second
another two acres disappear with less
plants and soil catching and absorbing
rainfall there is less moisture
evaporating as clouds into the air
stream and ultimately less rain falling
on South Paulo the lifeblood of this
megalopolis has been the three or four
convergence rainfalls that have arrived
like clockwork every year to fill the
region's reservoirs but as the frequency
of these vents becomes less reliable so
do the future prospects of the entire
city the remarkable fact is that 20% of
the world's water is stored in Brazil
the vast majority of it falls far to the
north with its rivers currently too
polluted to drink from and development
continuing to spread inland there are
limited options for bolstering its water
supply by building costly dams or
acquiring new sources through long
canals in the end the people of South
Paulo just like the rest of us are
learning the fundamental lesson of the
21st century to survive and thrive our
cities must embrace the most sustainable
methods of development the good news is
that with a clever master plan and
citizens dedicated to taking action Sao
Paulo is hard at work on the long-term
solutions to deliver a better life for
millions of people the Sahara is home to
the world's largest desert city for
centuries this place has thrived
alongside the world's longest river the
city of a thousand minarets did the
capital of the Arab world a megalopolis
with a population of 20 million people
this is Cairo Egypt the mega city of the
Middle East born in the east bank of the
Nile five thousand years ago Cairo dates
back to the time of the first Egyptian
pharaohs and iconic pyramids of the
ancient city of Memphis
much later in 641 the Arab general a
merabh analyst founded the town of alpha
dot the seed from which contemporary
cairo has grown in 970 a walled city was
established to protect its inhabitants
from conquering armies over the next 400
years it would grow to become the
largest city in all of Africa Europe and
Asia Minor with almost half a million
people it was a key link in the
lucrative spice trade allowing it to
thrive culturally and intellectually
some of the earliest institutions of
higher learning were established here at
this time the middle of the 14th century
saw Cairo reached the pinnacle of its
importance soon after though decline set
in as plagues like the Black Death began
killing large portions of its population
then its spice trade monopoly was broken
when Vasco da Gama sailed from Portugal
to India establishing an alternative sea
route undermining Cairo's economic
importance and while under Turkish
control Cairo was relegated to just
another provincial capital within the
massive Ottoman Empire fast forward to
the 1830s when the urban growth that
defines modern Cairo began influenced by
the renovation of Paris a european-style
city was built to the west of the
medieval core Cairo entered its most
rapid period of expansion in the 1950s
triggered by Colonel Nasser's revolution
that ended two thousand years of
imperial rule in Egypt that's when the
city began sprawling northward into the
Fertile Nile River Delta consuming
valuable farmland this growth was fueled
by improvements in transportation and
industrialization things like flood
control allowed the riverfront to be
developed and bridges allowed people to
settle on the area's Islands and West
Bank just like we've seen with the other
cities in this series Cairo's
development eventually reached a point
of critical mass where it suddenly
became an attractive enough destination
that people began arriving faster and
faster and in larger and larger numbers
but unfortunately for Cairo
it was unprepared for this influx and
couldn't grow fast enough to support
them many of these newcomers had to make
desperate choices about where to live
today half a million people live in the
city of the dead among row after row of
tombs more of Cairo's poor live in a
place called garbage city here 70,000
Chiron's
short and recycle the 15,000 tons of
trash that's created every day in the
rest of the city they actually provide a
vital service and were even recognized
as one of the most efficient sanitation
operations in the whole world
an urban artist named el Syed recently
undertook a beautification project there
and shared what he learned in a TED talk
community was the ideal context to raise
the topic of perception we need to
question our level of misconception and
judgment we can have you know as a
society upon communities based on their
difference the people of Cairo call them
the submarine which means the people of
a garbage but ironically the people of
machetes are called the people of Cairo
the Zabaleen they say they are the one
who produced the garbage not them you
know but even if you've got a home in
Cairo it's often built on shaky ground
developers frequently ignore or bribe
their way past rules that limit
buildings to a height of 6 storeys
because of the oversaturated Nile River
Delta land that serves the city's
foundation this had tragic consequences
in 1992 in an earthquake that collapsed
numerous residential towers killed more
than 600 people today looking around
Cairo from above also reveals that
nearly all the rooftops are occupied by
squatters who have made ramshackle homes
on the only open space they could find
one of the ways the government dealt
with overcrowding was to build a large
subway system modeled after the Paris
Metro it now has 1 billion riders a year
and has somewhat eased the brutal
traffic congestion but it brought the
unintended consequence of encouraging
even more people to move to the city in
response the Egyptian government has
tried to relocate people to gleaming new
cities they are continually building on
the outskirts of Cairo but with bad
transportation options - and from there
these cities become too expensive to
move to and fall flat every time
22 of these new towns already exist
designed for millions and millions of
residents they collectively hold a
little over 1 million
it seems the excitement and connectivity
of urban Cairo will always be more
attractive than a life lived in
overpriced suburbs further out in the
desert but wealthy developers haven't
gotten the message they're driven by
profit and prestige rather than doing
what's best for Cairo and Egyptian
housing minister Mustafa madbull II
seems to be listening to them he
recently unveiled a 40 billion dollar
mega plan to build an entirely new
capital east of the city he argues the
project is needed to ease congestion and
overcrowding in Cairo it attempts to
follow in the footsteps of other
purpose-built capitals we've seen like
Islamabad Brasilia and Canberra at 700
square kilometres it will be as big as
Singapore and will aim to house at least
5 million residents the project was
originally led by the Emirati
businessman behind the Burj Khalifa
although disagreements forced the
Egyptians to turn to Chinese companies
instead this ambitious risky project has
many Egyptians wondering if it's the
right way forward talking about they
should pay more attention to the poor
and needy instead millions of Egyptians
are unemployed and the government wants
to spend billions of dollars and in the
capital the new capital city is a lit
decision here in Egypt I don't know
but those in charge only start thinking
after the problem has already happened
perhaps one of the reasons president
el-sisi is initiating the project has to
do with what cairo has just lived
through in 2011 the world was captivated
by the Egyptian revolution when millions
took to the street demanding change
first the 29-year rule of Hosni Mubarak
ended then the misguided and brief
presidency of Mohamed Morsi was toppled
by a coup led by the current president
el-sisi with a firm grip on power it
makes sense for al Sisi to want to build
himself a new Capitol safely removed
from the masses in Cairo a city that is
now home to nearly one-in-four Egyptians
and his
one of the fastest-growing places in the
world in the next 30 years its
population is on pace to hit 40 million
one of the factors that's bringing so
many people is climate change while
Cairo is removed from the coast the
Egyptian city of Alexandria isn't and
it's already feeling the effects of
rising seas NPR's jana raff recently
traveled there to tell the story
Egypt is one of the country's most
vulnerable to climate change eventually
entire neighbourhoods could be under
water the Nile Delta is crucial to Egypt
more than half of its crops are grown in
that triangle where the Nile spreads out
and drains into the sea
in farmland along the Nile diesel pumps
bring up water for the river for
irrigation increasingly seawater is
creeping in a coastline that is
continually creeping inland will force
more and more people to move to Cairo
this will amplify the pressure Cairo's
leaders already feel but solutions exist
to manage its growth as long as smart
ideas prevail and Egypt's precious
resources be they land water or money
are used in the most efficient way in a
documentary that's several decades old
now visionary environmental consultant
Munir NIR Matala made the case that
despite its size cairo can thrive mega
cities really have an opportunity
they're not a burden we have to look at
mega cities as a place where human
beings are going to be efficiently
contribute something to mankind the
world now is not separated by national
boundaries and cannot be separated by
national boundaries thank goodness and
that is very much because of mega cities
mega cities are playing a very very very
important role in promoting peaceful
coexistence and in making sure that the
very important issues that concern our
planet such as environment are indeed
exchange
tended to and acted upon what makes this
place unique it is the world's largest
city at an elevation higher than 2000
meters with 20 1.2 million residents it
rivals New York City for the title of
largest metropolis in the Americas and
it is one of the world's oldest
continuously populated urban areas but
what truly sets this megalopolis apart
is also its biggest challenge it is the
largest city on earth without direct
access to a significant body of water
although that wasn't always the case
this is an examination of Mexico City
and the water crisis that threatens its
continued prosperity nearly seven
centuries ago now the Aztecs came across
an island in the middle of a lake in a
vast valley more than 2,000 meters above
sea level hundreds of kilometers from
the nearest coast 300 years later a
small group of Spanish explorers led by
Hernan Cortes arrived and what they
found was a thriving capital city the
heartbeat of the Aztec empire with
300,000 Souls it was called Tenochtitlan
and it amazed the Europeans its
labyrinth of canals dividing a network
of manmade
islands reminded them of Venice and they
wanted it for themselves there in the
centre of the lake was this gleaming
white city it was something they had
never seen before and for us we could
almost imagine as Dorothy looking at the
window you know at oz for the first time
it was far larger at a quarter of a
million people than any city they had
ever seen in Europe
armed with superior weaponry and the
most powerful exterminating agent
disease Europeans wiped the Aztecs out
and systematically dismantled their
great temples and pyramids then they set
out to quickly build the most renowned
city in the Americas they rejected the
Aztec way of living harmoniously with
the land and instead filled their canals
destroyed their floating farms and
drained water from the lake until it was
completely empty this set the city on a
collision course with nature over time
it has grown to cover the entire lake
bed and well beyond and because two
volcanoes one of them still active loom
over the city from the south the soil is
a mix of clay from the lake and volcanic
rock that's an unusual foundation to
build a sprawling heavy concrete jungle
on and it's why the city is sinking but
people keep on arriving because the
defining feature of Mexico City is
centralism the idea that all paths lead
here what used to be trails converging
on grassy Highlands became dirt roads
used by carts and donkeys loaded with
goods and are now the arterial roads
that move Millions the explosion of
mexico city's population like other
megalopolises around the world follows
the widespread adoption of the motor
vehicle in 1950 its population was 3.1
million has paved highways became more
common it jumped to five and a half
million by 1960 then nearly tripled to
14 million inhabitants by 1980 this boom
has exacerbated the city's two most
urgent challenges bringing in enough
water for 21 million people while
simultaneously sending away the millions
of litres of wastewater they produce
each day city is failing on both fronts
now it's worth noting that crime is not
mexico city's most pressing concern it
can be a dangerous place but the reality
is that while the country has seen its
murder rate rise as drug cartels battle
for territory the federal district has
some of the lowest crime rates in Mexico
it has installed more than 22,000
surveillance cameras throughout its 16
boroughs and put thousands more police
officers on the street increased
security keeps violent crime in check
and creates opportunities for educated
and artistically inclined young people
from the surrounding states it's a young
vibrant place with an economy that
accounts for one quarter of the
country's GDP while holding more than
one-fifth of its population that's one
of the highest capital to national
ratios in the world centralism remember
it's neighborhoods are diverse and flow
endlessly into one another one minute it
feels like you're in Paris turn the
corner in its Manhattan but just a few
streets over lie the rundown a vanitas
of Tijuana above all though it's crowded
Mexico City is the most congested place
in the world although it has an
excellent 12 line metro system that's
cheap enough for anyone to ride it's
five million cars snar all the roadways
on the streets above which brings us
back to the water crisis the city
experience is a powerful one-two
combination that amplifies the intense
droughts and downpours that come with
climate change
a gigantic concrete slab situated at the
bottom of a valley surrounded by
mountains that block in its pollution
it's a heat sink that speeds up
evaporation while preventing rainwater
from entering the water table below so
the city had been counting on its Grand
Canal to expel 280 cubic meters of
wastewater a second from its overflowing
sewers but it relies on gravity to pull
the water away as the city sinks the
canal becomes less and less effective
today it works at just 30 percent of
capacity the ever shifting ground also
means that many of the 8,000 miles of
pipes delivering drinking water leak
resulting in the devastating loss of up
to 40% of what's originally pumped up
from fresh water sources many miles away
and that's just the situation for the
residents lucky enough to have a
constant supply 20% or more of Mexico
City residents can't even count on water
flowing from their taps every day this
has created an incredibly inefficient
system where fleets of trucks fill up
their tanks and drive to deliver to
customers by hose house by house that's
an expensive way to live and it's why
many low-income families have to spend
10% of their month
income for just ten gallons of water per
person per day he's top Aleppo in East a
palapa there are a thousand trucks
distributing water to two million people
which is nowhere near enough to meet the
needs of those people it's expensive
inefficient and customers like Sylvester
Fernandez a struggling cab driver are
not satisfied we thought about they
sometimes it takes one or up to five
days after we request it and sometimes
we can't buy other things like diapers
to the baby because we have to pay for
water meanwhile residents living in the
wealthy neighborhoods consume 100
gallons on average a day from their
free-flowing taps and pay just 1/10 the
price this rampant inequality amplifies
the destabilizing effects of climate
change and water starve communities like
these exist all over the world which is
exactly why the u.s. Pentagon calls
climate change a threat to multiplier
the director of Mexico city's water
system explains what a severe drought
could mean quote we're facing a
potential disaster there is no way we
can provide enough trucks of water to
deal with that scenario there is a
serious possibility of unrest one study
says up to 10 percent of Mexico's
population could eventually head north
if droughts and floods get out of
control
the recent migrant crisis in Europe
underlines how difficult it is to stop
hundreds of thousands of people who are
fleeing for their lives from crossing
borders seas and yes even fences and
walls to help solve problems like this
Mexico City's local government is
gaining more power to govern itself it
clearly needs it the deeply unpopular
president Pena Nieto has simultaneously
cut off funding for Mexico City's water
fixes even as he advocates for a
multi-billion dollar new mega Airport in
a part of the city a dry lakebed
that could make the water problem worse
there's no easy solution to this ongoing
problem but Mexico City has no shortage
of smart people eager to get the job
done one of the longer-term solutions
could be the widespread adoption of
rainwater harvesting that's being tried
in some states
thing is actually quite a simple thing
what we do is the the rainwater that
falls on the roof of a house we channel
it to a cistern and we pass through a
very simple process that first flush is
the water in Brazil
why are we pumping water from over here
when we're having water falling on us
from the sky for free in huge abundance
we just haven't known up until now how
to take advantage of that every urban
center has its monuments its history its
skyline but great cities are more than
buildings great cities have a pulse and
few mega cities capture the complexity
chaos and vitality of a living system
more vividly than New York yet for a
place so deeply embedded in American
culture
it's fascinating origins often go
overlooked after all no city becomes
this celebrity's playground the city
that never sleeps the melting pot the
mother of exiles and the American dream
overnight while it is no longer the
largest metropolis on earth it is still
the most influential but as this
fast-paced capitalist mecca matures its
confronting a unique set of challenges
let's take a bite out of the Big Apple
America's mega city one of the most
remarkable things about this concrete
jungle is how quickly it sprouted up
compared to the other two mega cities
we've profiled so far New York is
relatively young less than 400 years ago
the city looked like this in 1609 the
island of Manhattan was found by an
expedition its leader Henry Hudson
realized immediately that it was a
geographical gem the ideal location to
build a city a large river ran along its
entire western shore and on its eastern
edge was a narrow estuary connected to a
large bay its southern tip was flanked
by two more large bays and dozens of
islands including the much larger Long
Island which shields Manhattan from
ocean storms and as we saw in our
previous explorations of Mexico City in
Bangladesh containing and distributing
clean water to residents is often a
keystone challenge for dense urban
centers on this front however
New York City reaps the benefits of
nature direct contact with water ensures
reliable access while elevated terrain
spares it from excessive flooding but
back to the 17th century after word
reached Europe that Hudson had
discovered what he called as pleasant to
land as one can tread upon the
mercantilist mind Dutch sent 30 families
to build a settlement called New
Amsterdam in exchange for some metal
kettles axes and cloth the Native
Americans who hunted throughout the area
gave the Dutch the island slaves were
immediately brought in to begin building
the town the town's population reached
700 in 1664 but it still wasn't
receiving very much support from the
crown back in Holland so English king
charles ii swooped in and with four
warships captured the town without
resistance
he then gave the colony to his brother
the Duke of York and you can guess what
they called it by the end of the 18th
century New York had become an important
port city then came the revolution that
changed everything in 1776 New York
joined the other American colonies and
declared independence from the English
after getting kicked out of Boston the
British responded by sending an entire
fleet of redcoats to seize and occupy
New York which they held for seven years
until George Washington led his
victorious rebel army back into the city
after the war New York briefly served as
the capital of the newly formed United
States until the federal government
moved to the more centrally located
District of Columbia as fascinating how
that came about the decision was
ultimately up to President Washington
but he left it up to his two right-hand
men to figure out in a backroom deal
brokered by James Madison over dinner
Treasury secretary Alexander Hamilton of
New York agreed to allow the nation's
capital to move south to Northern
Virginia the home state of Secretary of
State Thomas Jefferson in exchange
jefferson agreed to support Hamilton's
financial plan which included the
creation of a powerful central bank
soon after the New York Stock Exchange
was established laying the groundwork
for lower Manhattan to become the
financial capital of the world
today its home to the two largest stock
exchanges by total market capitalization
couple more events in the early 1800s
helped accelerate the city's growth a
grid pattern of streets was laid out
providing an organized plan of expansion
to the north and the opening of the Erie
Canal in 1825 this increased New York's
importance as an export center of Goods
agricultural products and raw materials
that could now be easily transported
from the resource-rich Great Lakes
region around this time the city became
the Gateway to America as large numbers
of German and Irish immigrants arrived
between 1820 and 1850 New York's
population quadrupled many of these
newcomers had to settle in tenement
houses without proper sanitation or
clean water diseases like cholera
typhoid and smallpox became rampant the
construction of the Croton Aqueduct one
of the world's first great modern water
distribution systems helped to solve
this problem and hygiene began to
immediately improve in order to preserve
the fast-growing city's connection to
the environment a six hundred acre area
of swampland and squatter shacks was set
aside for preservation and eventually
transformed into Central Park today it's
the most visited urban park in the
country heading into the 1860s slavery
was deeply dividing the northern and
southern states New York was the
epicenter of the abolition movement when
the Civil War began in 1861 after
Abraham Lincoln was elected president a
riot broke out as angry white mobs
attacked blacks with a blamed for low
wages and the war hundreds were killed
despite the unrest the city's economic
engine roared as it became the vital
source of financing and supplies for the
two million soldiers strong union war
effort after the northern victory
brought peace to the country New York's
industrialists were free to focus on
building in 1883 the Brooklyn Bridge was
completed linking New York to the third
largest city in the country the 1880s
also brought electricity to the city and
by 1893 there were 1,500 arc lamps
illuminating New York streets in 1898
the state legislature incorporated
Manhattan
and the surrounding four boroughs of
Brooklyn Queens the Bronx and Staten
Island into the city of New York
instantly doubling its population and
quadrupling its land area after leading
the earlier fight to abolish slavery New
York was now the leader of the women's
suffrage and workers rights movements
this culture of inclusivity also
welcomed african-americans fleeing the
destruction and segregation of the south
they largely settled in an area on the
Upper West Side that became known as
Harlem the cultural capital of black
America electricity made the city the
center of nightlife in the Roaring
Twenties
by the end of the decade the New York
metropolitan areas population had grown
to 8 million passing London to become
the planets largest urban area in 1931
the city also had the world's tallest
building as the Empire State Building
rose to dominate the skyline in an
almost ridiculous way world war ii
brought another way with immigrants
fleeing the chaos and destruction in
europe when it was over New York status
as the unofficial capital of the world
was cemented with the construction of
the gleaming United Nations complex
along the East River
throughout its history New York has also
been a core force behind major social
movements that have focused the
country's vision while unifying New
Yorkers as a community with a common
identity the city played an important
role in the civil rights movement of the
1960s as leaders like dr. Martin Luther
King rallied support through the new
york-based news media the gay rights
movement counts Greenwich Village as its
epicenter this neighborhood was also the
site of a crucial battle between the
powerful developer Robert Moses and
residents led by activist and author
Jane Jacobs
their grassroots movement ultimately
blocked Moses from carrying out a
project that would have bulldozed the
village and the area now known as Soho
in order to cut through the heart of
Manhattan with a giant Expressway the
lower Manhattan Expressway
to have connected the Holland Tunnel
with the Williamsburg and Manhattan
bridges it would have destroyed most of
Soho we would have lost one of the
greatest inventories of 19th century
buildings not just in New York but in
the world the highways of course
destroyed the neighborhoods that they
went through
where was this going to end the whole
place was going to be laced with
highways what would we have left of
Manhattan the Moses thought he was
improving the city by bringing it up to
date by making it work for the
automobile and as it became clear that
urban highways were in fact profoundly
destructive it really became a battle
between opposing forces in the 1970s and
80s economic problems and the crack
cocaine epidemic created a spike in
crime but modernized police strategies
and the rebirth of Wall Street helped
solve these challenges today there are
less than 400 murders a year in the city
down from a high of over 2000 in 1990 of
course New York still lives with the
traumatic memory of its worst day
September 11 2001 when more than 2,500
civilians and first responders died in
the tragic attack on the World Trade
Center in the 16 years since one World
Trade Center has risen from the ashes to
become the tallest building in the
Western Hemisphere today the New York
metropolitan area has over 20 million
residents just to be clear the city of
New York has about eight and a half
million people but for the purposes of
this mega city series I'm using entire
metropolitan populations because that's
a cities labor market its economic zone
if you will anyway
New York no longer is the largest city
or metropolitan area in the world but
it's still massive population presents
tremendous challenges for one its subway
is one of the busiest transportation
systems on earth its ridership nearly
doubled from 1 billion annual riders in
1990s to 1.8 billion today
but the amount of track and subway cars
has stayed the same this crowding has
bogged things down the system-wide
average on time rate has dropped from 90
percent over the last decade to just 65
percent the silver lining is that a 17
billion dollar second Avenue subway line
is coming online
the first phase opened this year but the
remaining three phases could take more
than two decades to complete another
issue is exorbitant ly expensive housing
costs in some high-end areas have been
driven up by foreign investors like
wealthy Russians and Chinese who like to
park their fortunes in the ultra-secure
new york real estate market but the root
cause of high prices is simple supply
and demand whenever new housing
development is built with affordable
units it gets ten times as many
applicants as there are units available
to rent the mega developments Essex
Crossing Hunters Point South and Pacific
Park that are going up throughout the
city are seeing this firsthand
in the near term the high-end housing
shortage will be eased slightly by the
28 acre Hudson Yards mega development at
an estimated total price tag of over 20
billion dollars this new neighborhood is
the most expensive real estate project
in American history another future mega
project getting people's attention for
different reasons is Cornell Tech on
Roosevelt Island in the East River the
school joins the more than 120 colleges
and universities in the city and will
feature the world's first high-rise
residential building that meets
Passivhaus energy-efficient principles
projects like these make it clear New
York City is cultivating the human
capital needed to tackle the world's
biggest problems thanks to climate
change New York will have its fair share
as we saw firsthand after Hurricane
sandy flooded large parts of the region
there is no bigger threat to New York
City than rising seas that storm caused
nearly twenty billion dollars in damages
with New York's coastline expected to be
between one and two feet higher by 2050
now is the time to start planning for
the future whether that's designing
flood and seawall solutions that blend
with existing infrastructure or
embracing a policy known
as managed retreat where areas are
simply abandoned in favor of higher
ground with so much at stake there's
little doubt New York City will meet
these challenges in many ways it
represents the best of our modern world
it's dynamic creative and socially
tolerant its embrace of sustainability
proves that capitalism and
environmentalism are not incompatible
and it's people which speak 400
different languages and are 37%
foreign-born prove that even in one of
the most densely populated urban centers
on the planet if conditions are good
there's plenty of room for everyone to
get along
Everest and the Himalayas it may not
seem like this mountain range could
shape a mega city almost 600 kilometres
away but it does this place the capital
of the most densely populated major
country in the world is also the
fastest-growing city on the planet this
is an examination of Dhaka Bangladesh
the constant supply of melting snow and
water that flows down the Himalayas to
the south creates the largest Delta in
the world much of it runs through
Bangladesh an agricultural paradise with
some of the richest soil on the planet
but all that water is also a curse with
more than 700 rivers flowing into the
Bay of Bengal many of the country's
residents become displaced when monsoon
season arrives in mid-june every year
annual rainfall in Bangladesh is over 78
inches and two-thirds of the country's
64 districts experience regular flooding
combine that with the highest population
density of any major country and you
understand why Dhaka is adding more than
400,000 residents a year if even a
little of Bangladesh is precious land is
overtaken by water many of its people
instantly become homeless to top that
off when fields and villages flood these
already struggling micro economies
become even less sustainable so people
pour into the capital because that's
where the jobs are more than 2 million
people now work in dock as many garment
factories that industry is the engine of
the bong
economy producing 80% of its exports but
it can be a hard industry to break into
if you're a farmer coming from the
countryside so many unskilled people
find work in the off-the-books economy
there's a reason why this is known as
the rickshaw capital of the world
cash gigs like vegetable salesmen barber
shop keeper boatman and cycling cabby
make up nearly four out of five jobs
here average pay for this full-time work
is less than $100 a month so development
is a tough nut to crack in order to
raise revenue to provide better services
and solve problems like traffic
congestion the city needs to bring these
people out of the shadow economy that
idea was examined in the global posts
excellent report on dhaka from a few
years ago legitimizing this vast slum
economy would mean compelling millions
of vegetable sellers shop owners and
barbers to get licenses pay taxes and
formalize working conditions it's a
gargantuan task Dhaka wasn't always so
low in the global economic pecking order
in at a day as the commercial capital of
the Mughal Empire in the 17th century it
was one of the wealthiest and most
prosperous cities on the planet the
Venice of the east known then as
Jahangir Nagada
was a worldwide hub of the cotton and
silk trade its palatial Caravan Surrey
the badhak etre sheltered merchants
traveling along the Grand Trunk Road one
of the oldest and longest thoroughfares
in Asia then Dhaka fell into two
centuries of turmoil that saw its status
decline first the British took control
in 1765 when they were forced out in the
middle of the 20th century the city
became the capital of eastern Pakistan
Bangladesh finally won its independence
in 1971 but only after suffering heavy
damage during many battles one of the
legacies of two and a half centuries of
power struggle in this region is its
confusing and hard to define borders the
India Bangladesh boundary is one of the
strangest in the world one look and it's
obvious Dhaka is taking in people from
the entire region Bangladeshi or not
this great migration is overwhelming the
city's infrastructure and services which
simply can't keep up still there are
some
obvious things the country should be
doing to help doc a better managed
growth one deceptively simple suggestion
put control of her vital services in the
hands of a single municipal government
accountable to the people it serves as
in many unplanned cities of its size
stock as police utilities and roadways
are controlled by a dozen or more
national authorities mostly run by
political appointees unfortunately
Bangladesh is political system is not
functioning properly especially at the
national level
daka's police force carries out
extrajudicial killings and the
government tolerates and even encourages
attacks on journalists academics and
minority groups who try to expose
mistreatment and corruption and the city
has experienced an uptick in terrorism
and there's evidence some of its
militant networks may be turning to the
extremely violent tactics of the Islamic
state or Boko Haram in Africa and so
there's a battle under way to attack
foreigners and this site was a site
where lots of foreigners congregated and
the attackers knew that they would have
foreigners as victims that's why they
attacked where they did but like many of
the other underdeveloped mega cities
will profile in this series the most
pressing need Dhaka citizens face is
daily access to clean water many people
live in slums with limited water and
limited money to buy it this leaves the
entire city teeming with mosquitoes
vulnerable to all sorts of health issues
[Music]
in the end it's easy to focus on the
problems of this place but many of
daka's people are filled with hope in a
video produced by the YouTube channel
footsteps we see there's no shortage of
bright people full of ideas for how to
make things better
Mustafa's hotfoot power what is a
particular statistics in labels as data
as a second person you live in please
don't buy into that
these are just people with agendas so
let's forget about all these second
worst city to live in molasses do our
best to make this the best he's right
the people of Dhaka will decide their
fate but they need to have a real sense
of urgency because the real challenge is
just beginning
climate change threatens to make their
situation much worse by 2040 it will be
2 degrees Celsius warmer the glaciers
and snowpack in the Himalayas will melt
faster and rivers flowing from the
mountains in the north will meet wider
Delta's in the south is more intense and
more frequent cyclones drop more rain on
this already flood prone land much of
Bangladesh lies within 10 meters of sea
level that means when the sea Rises and
expected to feet in the coming years the
already overcrowded country will have 3
percent less land it won't be easy to
implement the changes Dhaka needs to see
but there are solutions to most of these
challenges thanks for watching I'd love
to know what you think Dhaka and
Bangladesh as a whole should prioritize
in its quest to manage one of the most
challenging situations any civilization
has ever faced one mega city always
seems to be at the forefront of
progressive movements whether it's
innovation in its cuisine Couture
infrastructure or governance this refuge
for the rebel artist philosopher and
scientist has always held a place in the
hearts of romantics and vanguards alike
because here in the City of Light
engineers and artists often share a line
of sight this is Paris the grand mega
city 2,300 years ago a group of Celtic
Gaul is called the Parisi settled on the
Ile de la Cite a a small island in the
middle of the Sun after falling into the
hands of the Roman Empire the town grew
until the Empire collapsed the short
time later
clovie the first King to unite all the
Frankish tribes in Paris is the origin
of the name Louis
taken
by 18 subsequent French monarchs for the
next thousand years or the period known
as the Middle Ages Paris saw rulers
religions Wars and plagues come and go
as it became the largest city in Europe
home to one of the first universities
and the birthplace of Gothic
architecture Paris was ground zero for
the Enlightenment philosophies embracing
individual liberty religious tolerance
and the scientific method were perfectly
captured by the phrase sapere Aude dare
to know in the end the monarchy and the
church were simply overmatched by the
sheer power of a set of ideas whose time
had come
ideas that were spread far and wide by
books and pamphlets the stage was set
for revolution on the afternoon of July
14th 1789 the Bastille a medieval
fortress and prison symbolizing royal
authority in the center of Paris was
overtaken by force it was the opening
move in a ten-year struggle that
featured the bloody overthrow of the
monarchy the establishment of the French
Republic and violent political turmoil
the dictatorship of Napoleon followed
delivering many principles of the
revolution to much of Western Europe by
the middle of the 1800s Paris had well
over a million people but was made up of
tight streets and overpopulated filthy
alleyways life for many was a miserable
day-to-day struggle in disease-ridden
slums
so Napoleon's nephew who had become
Emperor himself set out to make the city
healthier less congested and grander he
turned to a clever man full of audacity
and skill the visionary urban planner
Baron Haussmann he imagined the modern
city as a living organism with the
boulevards its arteries over the next 17
years the duo oversaw the most epic
Public Works Prix since ancient Rome
tens of thousands of workers were hired
to carry out their plans which included
completely rebuilding the sewer system
and installing hundreds of kilometres of
pipes inside of it to distribute gas for
thousands of new streetlights to brand
new rail
stations connecting Paris to the rest of
France and more than 20 parts to ensure
that none was more than a 10 minutes
walk away from anyone but the innovation
that most transformed the city was
Haussmann's dedication to wide
boulevards 12 of which converge on the
roundabout circling the Arc de Triomphe
throughout the 30 year undertaking
hundreds of thousands of people were
displaced in phases as the entire city
became a construction zone this
sacrifice which wasn't always
appreciated by the residents of Paris
was well worth the end result the
discipline to keep the building's lining
these avenues the same height all faced
with similar coloured stone created a
striking visual effect over the next 100
years
Paris was thankfully spared the
widespread destruction suffered by many
other capitals in the wars and conflicts
that unfolded across Europe when the
unthinkable happened in 1940 and Nazi
flags were raised throughout Paris
during the German occupation Hitler
declared the city too beautiful to bomb
famous photos show him posing like a
tourist at the base of the Eiffel Tower
which was the tallest building in the
world at the time of its construction in
1889 originally planned to be dismantled
after 20 years converting it into a
radio tower saved it and today it is the
most visited landmark on the planet
another signature site is the Louvre
built and expanded over the course of
eight centuries what was once the
largest building in the world used to be
a palace that changed when the Royals
were thrown out during the French
Revolution
today it is the most visited Museum in
the world as the decades after the
French and Allied victory in world war
ii stretched into the 21st century
paris remained at the forefront in the
battle of ideas grappling with
challenges like how best to educate its
students integrate immigrants and
refugees offer services to its people
and find a balance between security and
liberty in the face of terrorism but
Paris has always come through the other
side of struggles more unified and
stronger
just two weeks after suffering the
deadliest attack on French soil since
the Second World War
Paris hosted 196 countries in an effort
to make progress on climate change the
French government is also focused on
making sure the 12 million people who
now call Paris home are well supported
by world-class infrastructure as it
prepares to host the 2024 Summer
Olympics Paris is aiming to complete two
mega projects building 12 more towers in
the La dfense financial district on the
westernmost end of the ten kilometre
historical axis and expanding the Paris
Metro adding four new lines in 68
stations to a system that is already the
most extensive on the continent these
improvements will keep the city thriving
for decades and ensure that the next
generation of Parisians are positioned
to lead on the challenges of the second
half of the century these seven mega
cities demonstrate the challenges of
managing rapid growth in the modern era
but what's easier is managing the growth
of your online accounts keeping track of
the many passwords and logins you're
constantly creating is easy with - Ling
- Lang this video sponsor is the
convenient and safe place for everything
that matters in your digital life
securely store your passwords and
personal information to auto log into
your accounts instantly auto save new
accounts as you browse and to make
payments easily with secure one-click
checkout it works across every browser
and every device - Lane's identity
dashboard even gives you a complete
picture of your online security alerting
you immediately if your information is
compromised so you can quickly take
action and it's secure VPN protects any
Wi-Fi connection for worryfree browsing
join 10 million users around the world
who trust - Lane's all-in-one service
visit - lang comm / TDC today to try -
Liam premium free for 30 days and enter
the code TDC to get 10% off at checkout
I hope you enjoyed this full length look
at the mega cities we've profiled so far
on this channel make sure you subscribe
to catch my next round of mega city
videos
for TDC I'm Bryce plank thanks for
watching